---
layout:     post
title:      Exim, ZDI, and the casualties
date:       2024-01-02
author:     invisiblethreat
thumbnail:  gravatar
summary:    With the animosity between Exim and ZDI, everyone lost
categories: general
tags:
 - disclosure
 - zdi
 - exim
 - users
---
# Three months later- a reflection

I didn't want to immediately post about the mess that was the "Exim VS ZDI" to
give myself some time to see if I still felt the same way given the initial mess
that was created. I still do feel the same way:

> Everybody lost.

## ZDI Lost

ZDI is supposed to be a professional disclosure organization. Nothing in the
mailing list logs shows professionalism. There are most likely private
communications that will never see the light of day, but again, this is their
business. They are owned, now, by TrendMicro, and most likely have competing
interests of being a disclosure organization, and providing value of some sort
to Trend.

## Security People Lost

A late week disclosure on vulnerabilities with incomplete information is a
terrible place to exist. Many questions and few answers just sets people's time
on fire. Thanks for nothing, ZDI. Given the extremely protracted timelines,
would it have killed ZDI to hold this until the following Monday or Tuesday? All
it does is raise questions around their motivations and the desired end results
of "helping" VS "getting press".

## The Exim Project Lost

I feel like the Exim project, and their users, were the biggest losers out of
all parties. The project was cavalier with the userbase's trust in the project
and ability to interact with ZDI. They failed to find a way to move forward with
ZDI, at the expense of the reputation of the project's reputation and the trust
from the users. In reality, if cPanel was not distributing Exim, there would be
far less fanfare around this software.
